= Gimme A Break

This plugin adds a way to throttle ActiveRecord creation.

Add +gimme_a_break+ to your model to enable the throttling.
It will then not be possible to create models in quick succession.
Object creation is usually very "expensive" (in time) and blocks most
database servers. Database IO is usually the bottleneck
in web applications, and thottling this back is a great way to
increase overall availability.

An error message will be added to the base object and the object
will not be valid. It's up to you to display this error to the user.
When you follow ActiveRecord convention you will be fine. The error
message can be localized using the key <tt>gimme_a_break.notice</tt> with
<tt>{{count}}</tt> as the timeout in seconds.

The throttle is applied per running instance. If you have two Passenger
instances running, people will be able to create twice the amount
of objects. This is exactly what you want, since the limit should scale
linearly with the capacity of your servers. If your database keeps
getting overloaded, reduce the timeout.


== Options

+timeout+: the time to wait between creates, in seconds. Default is 6.


== Prerequisites

Your model needs to have a created_at column for this to work. An index on it is highly recommended.


== Installation

  ruby script/plugin install git://github.com/tilsammans/gimme_a_break

or in your Gemfile:

  gem 'gimme_a_break'


== Examples

  class Comment < ActiveRecord::Base
    gimme_a_break
  end

  class Tweet < ActiveRecord::Base
    gimme_a_break :timeout => 2
  end


Copyright (c) 2011 Joost Baaij, released under the MIT license
